PyD3
====

A command line tool for editing the ID3 tags of MP3 files. This tool will strip any existing tags on your MP3 files and construct new tags based off of the mp3 filename and path. Note, the new tags will be version ID3v2.3 only. This program will also detect any files auto generated by Windows Media Player and delete them (Folder.jpg, AlbumArt.jpg, AlbumArt-Small.jpg).

## Why edit ID3 tags?

If you're picky about the metadata in your mp3 files then this is the tool for you. It can be extremely annoying dealing with songs that show up in your phone with the wrong title, year, or genre. Using a batch formatter like PyD3 will help organize your files to make sure they get displayed on your devices exactly how you'd expect.

## Install Instructions (Windows)

1. Install [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/). (This install should come with python's package manager pip)
2. Add python and pip install locations to your Windows PATH environment variable. Assuming you installed python v2.7 to your C drive, you can append the following to your PATH ```;C:\Python27;C:\Python27\Scripts```
3. Open windows cmd prompt and run ```python --version``` and ```pip --version``` to make sure you have python and pip correctly installed on your machine.
4. Upgrade your pip version with ```python -m pip install -U pip```
5. Install **mutagen** dependency using pip with ```pip install mutagen```
6. Clone/Download this repository to your local machine

## How to use

1. Create a folder to hold all of your album fodlers. The full path of this directory will be given when you run the script. Place all album folders inside this directory.

2. Rename album folders if needed. The artist name, album name, and year are parsed from the album folder. The folder should be in the following format: ```<Artist Name> - <Album Name> (<Year>)```

3. Rename the individual mp3 files inside each album folder. The track number and song title are parsed from the mp3 filename. The track number must be 2 digits long and there must be a space separating the track number from the title. Format: ```<2 digit track number> <title>.mp3```

3. Add an image file in the album folder and name it "cover.jpg/jpeg/png". This image will be embedded in the tags of all mp3 files in the album folder. *Note, if you leave out the cover.jpg there will be an error thrown. You can ignore error this if desired.

4. Run the program with ```python tagEditor.py -p <pathname> [-g genre]``` The pathname should be the directory from step 1 that contains all of your album folders. The -g flag is optional to specify a genre for the entire batch of album folders. For help run ```python tagEditor.py -h```

6. Done! PyD3 will crawl through this directory and fix the ID3 tag information for all of your mp3 files. An error log text file will be created in the directory from step 1.

## An example with file layout

```
music/
  The Beatles - Abbey Road (1969)/
	 01 Come Together.mp3
	 02 Something.mp3
	 cover.jpg
  Bayside - Killing Time (2011)/
     01 Already Gone.mp3
     02 Sick, Sick, Sick.mp3
     cover.png
```

Run ```python tagEditor.py -p <path to music>/music -g Rock```


## Run on a single album directory with -s

Run ```python tagEditor.py -s -p <path to album directory> -g Rock```
